>> Brian Holt: So,
>> Brian Holt: Any questions?
>> Speaker 2: Can you show us the worm,
I guess the JavaScript for the worm stuff?
>> Brian Holt: Yep, really the only thing
that affected the worm was this one,
line 146 there.
>> Speaker 2: And
that is inside of your feed function?
>> Brian Holt: Yep, so
if they successfully or
are able to click it then you just use
the new score that you added to or
added two to, and
then you just say ten times score.
So let's say they're at four, right, 40%
of the worm container would be showing.
>> Brian Holt: So
who here was able to follow along mostly?
Yeah, that's great.
Is there any part of this that
doesn't make any sense to you?
>> Speaker 3: This, not that this
doesn't make sense necessarily,
but if we were working on it,
we did make it a score of three,
then the worm would never
show up properly, right?
>> Brian Holt: Correct.
>> Speaker 3: If you were saying, all
right, I'm giving this to a customer and
I want them to be able to adjust the score
that they need to get to get 100%,
then you'd have to do a little,
turn what, I didn't do.
>> Brian Holt: So
you're saying max score and
let's just assign it to five for
argument's sake.
This is a great question, right.
And then we're gonna make everything
based on the math from this, okay.
So we would come down here and
into feed, so
score is greater than or
equal to max score, right.
And then here ten was just the max
amount of things, right, so
this would be,
>> Brian Holt: So
this has to be a function of ten.
>> Speaker 3: Max score
times something equals 100%.
>> Brian Holt: Percentage of 10,
so it would just be the score
divided by max score times 100, right.
Am I getting my math in correctly?
I can never tell.
>> Brian Holt: So this was 3,
right, 3 divided by 5,
3 divided by 5 would be 0.6 times 100.
You'd end up with 60%, right.
So then you would be able to do that I
think
>> Brian Holt: And
then the worm would be always
the correct size based on max score.
>> Speaker 3: And
all you did was create a new constant?
>> Brian Holt: Yep, and
then your client can come up here and
just say change that number or
you can change the number for them and
charge them a lot of money for it.
>> Speaker 3: Right [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: And
then the number would always be correct.
Let me validate my assumption here
because I talk a big game but
sometimes it's not true.
So that looks roughly right doesn't it?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah,
cuz first one was a key and threw me off.
>> Brian Holt: Yep, then you might make it
adjustable how many points to each mole's
worth or something like that.
It probably would make the math easier if
you just adjusted how many points each
mole was worth, right, and
make it out of 100 or something like that.
But that's obviously something
you can play around with,
you can make your own design decisions.
Again, this is one way to code this game,
there are a myriad of other ways,
infinite amount of ways
that you can code this, and
no one of these is gonna be
any better than the other.
The best kind of game is the one
that's done, [LAUGH] right.
So if you finish it,
then it's the best one.
>> Brian Holt: Any other questions?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Can you go
over the feed function,
I'm just a little confused on how it
works away, once the mole is fed,
how it works away from hungry
instead of going to sad.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, sure.
>> Brian Holt: So
here inside of our getNextStatus, right,
this is running roughly every, well this
only runs when the mole has a next status,
right, so after 500 milliseconds or
100 milliseconds, right.
So it comes in here and
it says this mole at this given time,
what is it status, right, and
it goes through one of these statuses.
So this is a type loop, again,
you can see here that this just runs
indefinitely unless, well yeah,
it just runs indefinitely
through this cycle of statuses.
Now if a user correctly
clicks on a hungry mole,
than it calls this feed function, right.
So what we do here is we change
the status to fed manually
outside of that loop, right.
So before everything was happening inside
of the next status one, right, but
now we're kind of hitting
a fork in the road here.
We're forcing this to be fed,
we're changing its .next, right,
so we're kind of modifying
it out of cycle.
>> Speaker 2: And that event at the top
is saying, but it's saying if you,
wait, I'm a little confused about
the not cuz the exclamation
mark means that-
>> Brian Holt: Not, right.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: So
the reason why we do this stuff up here,
there's one event listener for
this entire page, right.
If you scroll down to the bottom here,
we're listening for
events on background, right.
So if I click here, not on any of the
moles, it's still firing events that this
event listener is catching, right, so
I have to weed out all of that stuff.
So here I'm checking is this an image and
does that image contain hungry?
Honestly, since nothing else
can possibly have hungry on it,
cuz we don't put it anywhere, you really
could just get rid of the first part too.
And honestly,
>> Brian Holt: This is better, yeah.
So you still have to check does
this contain hungry, right.
If it doesn't contain hungry,
then just stop, yeah.
Does that follow?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
any other questions on it?
Cool.
>> Brian Holt: Other questions?
>> Speaker 2: When you are writing
code like this, would you,
I feel like we did a lot of jumping in and
out of different functions.
And okay,
now we're adding a new feature, so
we're changing something in this function,
and this one.
And it's not super intuitive to
me how to know which function,
where to put certain pieces of code.
So when you would be writing
something like this would you like
the entire feed function first and
kind of fill in the functions
that you know you need,
kind like what we did verses like,
I guess it doesn't make sense
to do it based on features.
What's the trade off there?
>> Brian Holt: I think it's gonna
vary wildly depending on who you ask.
I try and solve a problem at a time,
right, and
kind of validate assumptions, right.
So you can see the first
thing I chased after here was
making that cycle work correctly, right.
That was one of the bigger
features to tackle.
But honestly I think when I
was writing this from scratch,
cuz I have the notes here,
I know how this all works, I've already
thought all the way through this before.
I think what I did first time is rather
than doing the whole cycle here,
I just had to go back and
forth from hungry and gone.
And I started there with like a really
simple thing that I could write this and
immediately see results, right.
And then I kind of just slowly added
more and more steps to this, right.
But I try and
just solve one problem at a time.
So a lot of times I'll do things like
this, remember how I just wrote win?
It was like, I don't wanna think
through what winning means right now,
I just want to know that this
is where winning happens, right.
And sometimes I won't do that,
I'll just do you win here,
and then I'll just keep going and
finishing up the rest of my thought.
So I'll leave myself a lot of
like to-do's, like this to-do.
And then I actually have a tool
here that won't let me check and
code if it still has to-do's in it cuz
that means I didn't finish something.
So I do that a lot.
And then I just try and
keep these functions pretty small.
In this one the getNetStatus
got pretty long,
I'm a little unhappy
with how long this is.
Next time I might have a function that
says make leaving or something like that,
and then have them just broken out
into smaller and smaller functions.
But for now this works.
Does that kind of roundabout
answer your question?
Just try and
tackle bite sized pieces at a time.
As much as small pieces you
can break off at a time.
And if it's too big,
then break it into two smaller pieces.
>> Brian Holt: But I don't have that
much room for stuff in my brain, so
the less amount of stuff I can keep in my
brain, the less I'm gonna get confused and
forget about things and have to regain
context and all that kind of stuff.
Cuz I feel like half of my time spent
as a programmer is staring at my code,
trying to get everything in my head so I
can think about the problem holistically.
So the more I can limit that so that the
smaller about it means I can read about it
and reason about that code more easily and
more quickly.
So yeah, I think that's my thought on it.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, well I think my
challenges for you here then is to go and
complete this game on your own and
get it on your profile so
you have another thing that you can show
people, like check out this thing I built.
And yeah, thanks for coming.
That's the end of at least
the coding part of the boot camp.
Congratulations, you made it.
>> [APPLAUSE]